Add notebook samples from feature branch to main (#708)
microsoft/Quantum: samples/azure-quantum/variational-quantum-eigensolver/README.md

---
page_type: sample
author: guenp
description: Variational Quantum Eigensolver
ms.author: guenp@microsoft.com
ms.date: 05/02/2022
languages:
- python
products:
- azure-quantum
---

# Variational Quantum Eigensolver

> This is an Azure Quantum sample notebook that illustrates how to implement and run a Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) program.

Reviewer: Especially since this will be discoverable from the Microsoft-wide samples gallery and since we have several other VQE samples, we should have more description here and in the title to help users correctly place this sample into context.

Author: Would you be able to update the README with more details about the VQE sample? I think Guen worked on this sample and merged this README, so I don't have much context here.

Reviewer: Yes, absolutely; I won't have a chance for a few hours, but will get to it ASAP.

> # Variational Quantum Eigensolver
> 
> This is an Azure Quantum sample notebook that illustrates how to implement and run a Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) program.
> 
> ## Manifest
> 
> - [VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-ionq-sim.ipynb](./VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-ionq-sim.ipynb): Azure Quantum notebook for running the sample on the IonQ simulator
> - [VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-quantinuum-emulator.ipynb](./VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-quantinuum-emulator.ipynb): Azure Quantum notebook for running the sample on the Quantinuum emulator

Reviewer: This should be a bit more descriptive, and should provide a bit better context for readers. Thanks!

```suggestion
# Estimating the ground state energy of hydrogen using variational quantum eigensolvers (VQE) on Azure Quantum

This sample shows how to estimate the ground state energy of hydrogen using the Azure Quantum service. In particular, this sample uses the implementation of the variational quantum eigensolver algorithm provided with Qiskit to estimate minimum energies. The sample demonstrates running this VQE implementation the simulator provided by IonQ and on the emulator provided by Quantinuum.

## Manifest

- [VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-ionq-sim.ipynb](./VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-ionq-sim.ipynb): Python + Qiskit notebook demonstrating using VQE on the IonQ simulator.
- [VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-quantinuum-emulator.ipynb](./VQE-qiskit-hydrogen-quantinuum-emulator.ipynb): Python + Qiskit notebook demonstrating using VQE on the Quantinuum emulator.

## See Also

To learn more about variational quantum eigensolvers, see the introduction at https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/microsoft/quantum/variational-quantum-algorithms/.
```
